java.util.concurrent.Semaphore

A semaphore controls access to shared resources. 
A semaphore maintains a counter to specify the number of
resources that the semaphore controls. 
Access to the resource is allowed if the counter is greater than zero,while a zero
value of the counter indicates that no resource is available at the moment and so the access 
is denied.

The methods acquire() and release() are for acquiring and releasing resources 
from a semaphore. 
If a thread
calls acquire() and the counter is zero (i.e., resources are unavailable), 
the thread waits until the counter is non-zero
and then gets the resource for use. 
Once the thread is done using the resource, it calls release() to increment the
resource availability counter.

Method Description

Semaphore(int permits) Constructor to create Semaphore objects with a given number of permits
(the number of threads that can access the resource at a time). If the
permit’s value is negative, the given number of release() calls must
happen before acquire() calls can succeed.

Semaphore(int permits, boolean fair)
Same as the previous constructor, but this extra fair option indicates that
the permits should be allotted on a first-come-first-served basis.

void acquire()
void acquire(int permits)
Acquires a permit if available; otherwise, it blocks until a permit becomes
available. Can throw an InterruptedException if some other thread
interrupts it while waiting to acquire a permit. The overloaded version
takes a number of permits as an argument.

void acquireUninterruptibly()
Same as the acquire() method, but this thread cannot be interrupted
while waiting to acquire a permit.

boolean tryAcquire()
boolean tryAcquire(long timeout, TimeUnit unit)
Acquires a permit from the semaphore if available at the time of the call
and returns true; if unavailable, it returns false immediately (without
blocking). The overloaded tryAcquire() method additionally takes a
time-out argument—the thread blocks to acquire a permit from the
semaphore until a given time-out period.

void release()
void release(int permits)
Releases a permit from the semaphore. The overloaded version specifies
the number of permits to release.